From Hanselman is.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
33 recorded Monday, September 18th, 2006. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
COVID Smith tools, makers of
code Smith, an extensible template
base code generator for.net Hanselman
minutes. Listeners get $100 off
coach Smith professional with coupon
code H M 100. online@covidsmithtools.com.
Support is also provided by
exceeds zip for.net, which lets
you handle zip tar and
jesus' files on FTP servers
in the streams in memory
and more. Now get 20%
off any exceed component or
suite just for listening to
Hansel minutes, go to shrink
stir.com/fpt and use the code
H M dash 20 dash
20. Sport is also provided
by.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott and
Carl discussed features of windows
Vista released candidate. Number one.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin. You're
listening to Hansel minutes. I'm
here with Scott Hanselman as
I usually am every week.
Hi Scott. Hello, sir. How's
Portland, Oregon. Today. It is
getting a little nippy, a
little cold. I feel the
same thing in new England.
Yep. But it's all good.
We have no floods hurricanes,
tornadoes or earthquakes yet today
and I'm sure there's some
lovely vistas out there. There
are. In fact there is
a release candidate of a
lovely Vista just over the
West Hills. Yeah. Release candidate
running Vista. You know, I
tried and I'm probably gonna,
I, the problem was I
tried to install it on
a raid Stripe and drivers
being what they are, you
know, one, a whole bunch
of blogs said that this
particular driver worked and it
didn't. So I'm going to
go back to installing it
on a, on a straight
disc, I think. But yeah,
I am working on it
at the moment. So I
went, I went like a
putz, like a shmuck and
I went and I installed
it just on one in
one kind of big, crazy
evening on my wife's little
cheap $300 office Depot name
brand nice. I might on
my own personal, you know,
have been building it for
years. Fry's electronics, bringing it
back to life with a
new motherboard, every few years
machine and my tablet and
I had enough trouble With
those three machines that I
stopped before I hit my
media center PC. Yeah. But
I got a pretty good
view of what's going on
because I've got a pretty
wide series of computers there,
you know? So what can
we tell the people about
Vista? Well, if you're doing
anything tricky, funny drivers, funny
hardware, anything fancy, you've got
about a 50, 50 chance
of things working. For example,
one of the things that
I really liked about windows
XP pro and this is,
you know, years ago and
I mean like the very
first time I put XP
pro on a machine, I
took my old quick cam
express, my old logic tech
quick cam and I plugged
it in and it just
worked there. There were no
drivers required cause they had
included the drivers for this
express is express cam automatically.
That's one of the biggest
features of windows is not
having to worry about drivers
as far as know. Yeah.
Concern for the big stuff
for the big middle of
the bell curve stuff here.
Okay. Interestingly enough, that little
$3 camera that I got
at Goodwill did not work
on Vista RC three RC
one rather, excuse me. But
the weird little no-name Taiwanese
has no official drivers think
eat $4 cam does work.
So something got a little
inverted. They're not quite sure
when you install Vista, the
first time you can run
a compatibility check or you
can go online, you can
download the compatibility check ahead
of time. I think this
is really cool because it
gives you a checklist of
stuff that you ought to
do before you do the
installation. So you run this
adviser, this compatibility adviser, and
it says, you know, I
really think you ought to
uninstalling Nero, which was my
CD burning software. I love
you might want to think
about narrows the bomb. I
was pretty bummed, but you
remember that everything's changed from
a security standpoint and the
driver model has changed. So
Nero seven did not work.
I had done install it.
It said to install these
couple of drivers, didn't warn
me about my obscure ergo
decks.  alternative keyboard told
me that would work awesome,
but told me that my
Logitech quick cam express wouldn't.
So that along with a
Wacom tablet, three removable hard
drives four or five USB
hubs. You know, my, my
que cat scan, you know,
my scanner, my multifunction printer,
some stuff worked and some
stuff didn't. Now I know
that not everyone's going to
have, you know, roughly 15
devices plugged into their machine,
but I've got a pretty
wide spectrum of, of devices.
And I was surprised frankly,
at the obscure ones that
did work and the fairly
common ones that didn't. So
I would just say, take,
you know, do your best
and realize that something's not
gonna work at least with
RC one. So we've been
discussing this on the regional
director mailing list for the
last auto, no few weeks
ever RC one came out
really. And you know, a
lot of our DS are
having similar problems and a
lot of people having problems
with drivers and Microsoft has
been coming back with some
official answers. And one of
them resonated with me today,
which was that drivers, you
know, are the last thing,
the last piece of the
puzzle to get put into
an O S before it
ships and the driver, the
driver model is what Microsoft,
you know, they're the OSTP
side of the driver model
has to work. And then
apparently it does, you know,
the stuff that they've been
testing it with has been
stock, you know, SVGA drivers,
you know, not a lot
of fancy, fancy schmancy stuff
Was like ATI though have
had the access to what's
called the, you know, the
LDM, the Longhorn driver model
for the better part of
a year. And you know,
those guys like at ATI
and Nvidia are always pumping
out new drivers. So, you
know, if you're using an
ATI or an Nvidia, which
are really the only two
video cards, anyone bothers to
run anymore, you're probably doing
okay. But interestingly enough, the
default out of the box,
ATI drivers had allows you
to experience, but I did
install the  drivers from
ATI website directly. And I
did notice a difference in
the smoothness of the, the
glass effect. Yeah. But right
now, if I play my,
my movies or DVDs or
any windows media player video
on the secondary monitor, I
get four frames a second.
If I move it over
to the primary monitor, I
get a fluid 30 frames,
a second. Wow. ATI and
Nvidia guys. Who've got their
hands full when they go
to work in the morning,
just with just supporting XP.
I mean their stuff, you
know, their mainstream stuff has
been losing quality lately. Well,
it just gets so expensive.
I mean, why would I
buy a $400 video card
when I can buy an,
an Xbox three 60 for
$400? Yeah. So, I mean,
I think that I have
a 256 Meg radio on
9,800 pro. That was the
greatest video card that mankind
has ever known four years
ago. And you know, and
I'm still occasionally in different
applications like today and I,
and iTunes seven, I got
a year out of a
video card, memory error, and
interestingly in iTunes. Wow. I
don't think iTunes uses direct
draw though. I don't know.
They don't use the new
stuff in Vista. Interestingly though,
on my wife's a cheapo
machine with an integrated video
card. And I think it
has 64 megs of video
Ram. I got a video
card out of memory error
when I tried to launch
every single new game. Cause
all of the games and
Vista have been rewritten to
use the new, the new
WPF presentation stuff. So like
solitaire, spider solitaire. There's a
great new chess game. I
mean, they really brought it
out for the games. The,
the, the new games have
been totally rewritten. So I
went and ran them all
at once. Huh. Worked fine
on my big system. After
two of them ran on,
on my wife's machine, it
set out a video Ram
falling back to other renderer,
which I thought was interesting.
So, so how, how much
does your big system have
video? Ram was 256 megs.
Is that what they're saying
is the minimum or I
think that there's what depends
on what they're saying. The
minimum is right. So for,
for glass, I believe the
minimum is 128. Okay. Because
my Toshiba M two Oh
five has 64 megs of
shared Ram and it does
not run the arrow experience.
So you don't get glass,
you get what's called a
Vista basic, and there's a
couple of levels. There's like,
there's arrow, there's Vista basic.
Then there's another basic, that's
one step down from that.
And then there's a windows
classic kind of the original.
Now the best way to
find out about your system
once you've installed Vista is
to go to the control
panel and go under performance
information and tools. And you
get this thing called the
WEEI, the windows experience index.
And this is basically an
index, which is the lowest
value of your processor, memory
graphics, your gaming specific graphics
and your hard drive. That's
the lowest sub score. So
on my system, I have
an experience of 4.2 and
apparently the current max is
5.9, but this is a
relative thing. So as new
bits of hardware come out,
you're going to get bigger
and bigger numbers. But 5.9
is a current max. So
for example, in my system,
my hard drive, which is
a 7,200 RPM Stripe, I'm
getting 5.7 on my memory,
which is two gigs. I'm
getting memory operations per second.
I get a 4.8. Again,
these are all kind of
average things. I get a
5.7 for desktop performance, which
makes sense because I'm getting
really great desktop performance. The
dragging is clean. The arrow
experience is nice, but it's
a radio on 9,800. It's
not a great gaming machine.
I get a 4.5. Now
all of this is running
on a P three up
to me, a P for
three gigahertz, which isn't the
fastest machine out there right
now. So I got a
4.2. Now my overall score
is a 4.2 because your
system is only as fast
as the slowest part, right?
You can put a really
awesome video card and a
really crappy machine and still
not going to help things.
So it's actually a pretty
clever thing. And then as
you go to the game
section, they'll tell you that
this game requires a minimum
windows experience index of two.
So then you'll see these
experience indexes on games. And
this will be a really
easy way for people to
know whether or not something
will work on their system
or not pretty cool. It
is pretty cool. It's it's
they really got it, right.
It's very clever. And then
they have a whole section
on how you can improve
performance. Now there's a number
of really neat things in
Vista that are kind of
underneath. Cause a lot of
people are wondering, well, why
should I bother? Right? It's
just, it's it's XP service
pack three. You kind of
heard some people say, yeah,
I've heard that, but they've
really changed some of the
internals. They've got this thing
called super fetch. They've really
changed the prefetching stuff. If
you're looking at your windows
prefetch folder, see windows slash
prefetch inside there, there's a
thing called layout dot INI
that the loader is keeping
track of what files and
what directories are being accessed
so that the defragment or
can put those directories to
the faster part of the
hard drive. Yeah. And the
dot PDF files are letting
you know what DLLs are
getting loaded during the course
of running an application. So
the next time it sees
that application run, it can
load those DLLs Ahead of
time. I really love this
feature. I've heard it described
as you know, how many
people have a computer that
gets slower and slower. The
more you use it and
the promise of this. Anyway,
the idea of this super
fetch is that the machine
will actually get faster. The
more you use it, cause
it learns more. It learns
what you're essentially loading. Yeah,
exactly. Exactly. But with super
fetch, it's even more than
that, it tries to speed
your machine up when you
log in. So it's actually
going to say, well, he
always loads word and Excel
when he logs in. So
I'm going to just preload
those DLLs ahead of time.
So it's personalizing the loader
for your system. Now, a
lot of people say you
should go and delete that
folder. That's kind of a
stupid thing to do because
it's just gonna basically reset
your fetch data. And since
your fetch data is constantly
changing anyway, it's arguably becoming
a customized for you As
you go, but no more
reason to have four gigs
of Ram Scott. Well, so
that's a really good point.
So speaking of Ram, there's
a new thing called an
EMD and external memory device,
which is a fancy way
of using USB drives for
something other than moving files
around. So you've heard of
ready boost. Yeah. Have you
heard about this? Right. Think
this is really interesting. Yeah.
So this has caused a
run And on USB discs
because what ready boost is,
is it's basically saying the
swap file. Isn't fast enough
for random access. And a
lot of there's a lot
of arguments about this on
the net, but people don't
realize that when your hard
drive is fighting, you've got
that kind of like one
needle. Like for example, imagine
if you had an old
record, like a vinyl record
and you wanted to listen
to two songs at once
the hat and the needle
on that record can only
move back and forth so
fast. And you're going to
get skipping. You're not going
to get a great experience.
So there's a lot of
contention. That's why windows starts
up so slow is because
you've got, you know, 85
different programs that are all
trying to start up and
struggle to get access to
the disc. And that's why
a lot of services can
be delayed in windows Vista.
So basically they'll defer them
towards idle time. Cause you
don't need immediate support for
infrared or you don't need
immediate support for whatever. So
they defer those things. So
what ready boost does is
it says one thing that
USB drives are good at
that hard drives aren't is
really, really fast, random access
to data, not sustained. Give
me this giant file access
to data because you can
only get, you know, 17
to 20 megs, a second
out of an average USB
drive when you're doing sustained,
but they can give you,
you know, three, four, five
megs, a second, totally random
from any portion of the
memory. Yeah. Now you're talking
about flash drives, not USB
hard drives. I apologize. You're
absolutely right. USB flash drives.
Thank you for that correction.
Yeah. So with ready boost,
you pop in any USB
drive and the very first
time windows sees it, Vista
sees it for the first
time. It will run some
tests on it. And if
it sees that it's fast
enough, it will say in
the autoplay dialogue that pops
up, do you want to
enable this for ready boost?
Then you can basically make
a custom prefetch folder and
files on that system that
will load a part of
these fetching things. You know,
the DLLs and the bits
of information that need to
be loaded ahead of time
to make your system more
responsive. It'll load that stuff
onto the USB drive and
when it needs, it I'll
go there first. So it's
basically like a faster, closer,
more customized virtual memory for
the purposes of making the
loader faster, right? We're not
expanding memory. This is not
a way of saying here's
a really slow machine with
512 megs. I'm going to
give it four gigs just
by plugging in a flash
drive. But it is saying
that this machine has small
amount of memory and a
slow hard drive. What can
I put on that machine?
That's kind of in between
memory and hard drive, that'll
make the user experience faster,
right? And you can go
in and get a Kingston
data. Traveler elite is a
really good one. There's one
called a steno. That's really
fast. And a couple others.
If you do a Google
search for a fastest USB
drive, there's three or four
that are fast enough. And
I've seen some really big
ones out there too. Now
there's, they're getting pretty bad.
I mean, they're getting bigger
than 16 gigs. I've seen
eight, eight gigs, 16 gigs.
Have I seen, I'm trying
to remember right Now. One
of the things that's tricky
about these larger drives is
that they, they cheat a
little bit first. They'll tell
you that this drive we'll
do 17 megs a second,
but a lot of these
newer drives are putting 128
megs of really fast flash
and the rest slow. So
you don't get complete speed
across the entire amount of
memory that's on the drive.
So for some files, you'll
get a lot of speed
and others you won't. So
make sure that you take
a look at almost all
the big brands have an
elite or an advanced version
and then the regular version.
So there's the Kingston data
traveler that you can get
for a gig for 15
bucks at fries. And then
there's the data traveler elite.
That's going to cost you
40 bucks and you can
only find it online, almost
all of the USB drive
manufacturers. The big ones have
these different versions that include
the full on a speed
that you can get out
of a little drive like
this. Okay. This has caused
a run on people to
run on these drives. Everyone's
trying to get this stuff
working to see, does it
really make your system faster?
And the consensus is it
does make your, your, your
system a lot faster, 15
to 20%. They're saying disc
IO have regular kind of
using stuff, but you have
to. It's one of those
things that it builds on,
right? You load word once
it's slow, you run loaded
against again. It's faster. Now,
interestingly, they're talking about building
this Samsung, I guess is
building this into the drive
itself with a thing called
ready drive, which is really
clever. A lot of people
think it's stupid, but I
think it's really very clever.
They're basically putting a big
fat chunk of flash on
the hard drive itself. Huh?
Now they're saying they only
want to put 128 megs
or two 56 megs. But
I think we'll see pressure
from folks to get at
least a gig or so
on these drives. And, and
what's interesting about this is
it's not the performance that
they're looking for. It's the
battery life. Cause you think
about the contention. You think
about how much time your
little laptop has to beat
on that. Drive. If, if
you could get the most
of what you're working on
coming out of the flash,
you could spin down the
drive and they're saying, you
can get 30, 45 minutes
of additional battery life out
of your laptop because the
OSTP and kind of the
basics are running off of
the flash and you're not
having to swap around on
the drive. And I think
that's really clever. That's pretty
Slack. Yeah. So that's an
example of the kind of
under, you know, underlying stuff
that's happening in Vista to
make, make the experience better.
But those are subtle. I
mean, how do you tell
your mom, Hey yeah, super
fresh ready drive and really
boost are gonna make things
better. You know, basically you
will say, Hey, I see
your machines kind of slow.
You got an old Dell
laptop. Let me pop this
one gig drive and it'll
get a little faster. You
know, Scott's about it. Let's
talk About sleeping and hibernation.
What's new there. And there's
a new thing. There's, you
know, we used to have
standby and we had hibernation,
right? Yeah. Everybody knows not
to use standby. Okay. Well,
because standby would drain your
battery and then the machine
would just die. And also
some weird things happen with
drivers. When you load back
up, I I'm taking the
advice of several regional directors
who said always use hibernate.
Don't use standby. Cause we
I've. I've noticed strange things
happening when I, when I
come back from standby. Well
with the existing driver model
and XP, the drivers are
actually allowed to say, no,
they're allowed to say no,
I'm not going to let
you hibernate. I'm not gonna
let you stand by. And
then you get into trouble
because the drivers are to
support that directory directly. So
in the new model, not
only does Vista take that
ability away from the drivers,
but they introduced this notion
of sleep and sleep as
a simultaneous standby plus hibernation.
So we'll save the data
to Ram and we'll save
it to talk to a
disc. So if your machine
does lose its battery or
get turned off, it's it
can still come out of
hibernation. So you get the
best of both. You can
close the lid and get
the standby style of, you
know, the Mac kind of
closed the lid. Don't think
about it. You ever see
a windows person closed the
lid. They never do that.
They never just closed the
laptop and put it in
their bag. I'm always jealous
of that. I see people
in the airports with their
Macs, they just close them
and they put the, and
I'm like, dude, you need
to watch the flashing light
for 10 minutes. You don't
know Afraid of starting a
fire actually with my laptop,
I always kind of like
closed the lid and then
just watch it. It's like
looking at the light on
the inside of the refrigerator,
like, you know, watch and
make sure that this thing
actually got completely hybrid. Those
kinds of problems go away.
Well, that's good. Now, have
you installed  I have.
So did you put on
when effects as well? The
new dotnet framework three. Oh,
I have. So you have
card spaces. This is what
we used to be called.
Info card is now called
card spaces. Richard And I
talked to Kim Cameron about
this a couple of months
ago, I think. Oh yeah.
Isn't he a cool guy.
Very cool. Yeah. We don't
want to have him Blog.
He's got a great blog.
It's identity blog.com shrinks slash
. Yeah. He's come up
with his laws of identity.
Fabulous. What's cool about Kim
Cameron is that he realizes
that card spaces is not
son of passport. Right? We
can't have this kind of
passport thing again. The problem
with passport is that Microsoft
was in charge of it.
The nice thing about card
space is that it's based
on standards. It's XML is,
you know, the public loves
angle brackets and it works
without Microsoft software. It's a
great idea. And they're saying
it may be the most
important thing since cryptography, which
is a pretty bold statement,
right? I mean, you can't
just come out and say,
this is the greatest thing
since God talked to Moses
and expect and expect people
to get in line. But
Kim Cameron has actually enabled
his PHP based blog to
take info cards. So actually
logged in and left comments
on his blog using my
info card. Wow. So an
info card is basically client
side certs with revocation and
the ability to have security
token services for the masses,
right? I mean client-side certs
have always existed, but not
in a format that was
very easy to manage or
very comfortable. Right. And it
wasn't very easy to integrate
into your, into your browser.
One thing, One thing that
we clarified right away in
that interview was that even
though it's info card, which
makes you think that like
a credit card, like you're
carrying a physical card, that's
just the name of the
technology. It really doesn't have
anything to do per se,
with a, with a card
or a fog or anything,
although those things could be
used. So yeah, exactly. Future
versions of info card will
allow you to have a
fob as an additional bit
of authentication cause right? The
strongest authentication is, is what
you know and what you
have. Yeah. The RFID tags
that are built into your,
my Prius remote control that
allow me to lock the
door and, and start the
car with a push of
a button. Aren't secure that
anyone can read those with
the proper software and a
laptop. And they actually have
in cases of people stealing
Prius's out of parking lots
by using laptops in RFID
readers. Nice. Well, there's a
lot of concern about RFID.
We should do a talk
about that. People are concerned
that you could use RFID
to create bombs that would
target people, carrying specific RIA,
RFID enabled passports, but that's
a whole other show Protocol
that says, what's your code.
And then they give it
to you. It's really not
secure at all. Well, with
info card, something like an
RFID could be used potentially
as a claim info card
allows you to say, I'm
a website and I have
some specific bits of information
that I require from you.
So you could say, I
need your first name, your
surname and your email address.
And then you could select
a card which is really
just a, a certificate from
your store, from your, your
card space store, right? Yeah.
We should be calling it
card spaces. That's the new
name? Sorry. So you would
select your info card from
your card space store and
then send it to the,
to the site. In this
case, Kim Cameron's web bloggers
who wanted it from me,
he would then go to
the security token service check
for revocation. And there's an
exchange and you can go
up to his blog at
shrink stir slash  and
get the details about how
card space works. Yep. You
can go and learn about
how to install card spaces
at shrink stir slash IEC.
Currently I've got it on
my, my windows XP machine.
Cause you can put on
wind effects, which is the.net
framework three. Oh. And you
can put on seven and
then you've got it. And
of course you get it
automatically with Vista. And the
nice thing about card spaces
is that your users are
going to have this. This
is something that's going to
push out as a high
priority, automatic update on windows
update probably in November, sometime.
So people are going to
get card spaces. And what's
cool about it is that
you're going to see plugins
for Firefox. Mack is going
to support this. This is
something that people are excited
about that hasn't really had
nothing to do with Microsoft.
This is about identity 2.0,
putting people in control, potentially
just making, you know, fishing
and theft like that. So
much more difficult, right? We
should do an entire show
on card spaces. We can
talk about writing your own
security, token service, self issued
cards. What happens if someone
like visa comes out with
a, an info card service
that you can actually get
info cards for free, it
could be really game changing.
It's huge stuff. That's something
that's built into the underlying
security infrastructure of Vista and
is really exciting. We should,
and we should do another
show. Something else that's cool
about Vista is the
protected mode. They run
in a mode that is
even lower than the user
that you're running as already
is actually kind of useful
and annoying because as you're
doing stuff in Vista, you'll
find buttons and icons that
have a little windows shield
on them. So for example,
I went into a iTunes
seven yesterday and wanted to
deactivate my audible.com account. And
I noticed that the okay
button on the deactivate dialogue
had a windows shield on
it. Then I started realizing
that a bunch of the
icons for installers, like stuff
I want to do install
on my desktop, had this
little windows shield over it
to each time you click
on those, you get the
user access control, prompt. This
is the thing where you
get the curtain of, you
know, the gray curtain of
death that covers your desktop
and says, you need to,
okay, this, this is meant
to warn you when folks
do stuff like accessing directories
that they shouldn't, maybe you've
got a Trojan on your
machine or some kind of
attacker is trying to gain
access to a directory. One
of these would pop up
and this would be your
opportunity to say, no, I
don't want to allow that.
Yeah, this is real similar
to what the Mac folks
see when you're on OSX
and something tries to do
something you'll get prompted to
enter your password. In this
case, you just click on
a button in a special
modal mode. This is actually
a modal dialogue. That's system-wide
mobile modal. Rather. It actually
takes over everything. So it's
running in a different desktop.
It's an entirely different context.
I guess the perfect virus
for Vista is the one
that emulates that dialogue. Huh?
Yeah. That's a very interesting
question. I know that I've
seen a number of websites
that can simulate that, but
they can't cover the entire
desktop. Of course. Yeah. It
would have to be a
binary virus. I believe that
there are, there are controls
to prevent that because what's
interesting about this, this modal
dialogue is that it's running
in an entirely different desktop
context. It's a whole other
user, basically like same thing
happens when you're in card
space, that programs that are
running in your desktop, can't
access this stuff. You can
see it and you can
interact with it, but no
one else can. Right now,
some of the stuff that
my wife was excited about
is the family controls that
are built into Vista. This
is really great stuff. This
is kind of the stuff
that should have been built
into XP in my opinion,
but it's finally available in
Vista. This is where you
can actually go in and
fill out a grid of
when Billy can use the
computer, what programs he can
run, what he can't, what
sites he can visit. You
can set time limits on
your system. Wow. It's really
powerful stuff. So if you've
got kids and you want
to control their access, I
wouldn't be afraid to let
you know. Then the niece
and nephew play with the
computer, you can lock their
systems down, such that they
couldn't hurt themselves. Right. You
know, you let the kids
play with the machine and
you show up one day
in program files is in
the recycle bin. How did
you do that? That kind
of stuff doesn't happen on
Vista cause they really locked
it. Yeah. I've recently had
to deal with this because
my four year old has
recently taken a keen interest
in playing video games. So
I, her her own XP
login, I have a running
as a user and I'm
running as administrator. And what
I've done is I've just
removed items from her start
menu, just, you know, remove
control panel, remove that, remove
this, remove that. And, and
also we keep the computer
that she uses in the
living room. And so when
she's using it, we're in
there with her, you know,
I think that's probably the
first thing parents oughta try
to just, you know, spend
a little more time with
your children. No, there's a
number of yeah. Get them
off the computer as well
Would be preachy, but you
know, sure. We'll do a
show in the future on
running as a limited user,
there's a number of ways
that you can do this
in windows XP, where you
can basically lower your own
abilities, give yourself less access
there's tools like privileged bar
priv bar make me admin
and different tools like that.
You can set it up.
So a dos prompt will
turn red when you're an
administrator, we'll do a show
on that on running as
limited a user. It's a
really useful thing. A couple
of other things that are
cool to check out on
Vista is they're really going
full court, press on what
the, you know, the mysterious
flash URLs. You can go
to see windows vista.com and
that's one you can go
to innovate on windows vista.com.
And those are strings stir
slash I E L N
I E K respectively. They
got the guy, a guy
from TV. I forget his
name. He used to be
on a TV show called
picket fences. They got him
to do a whole series
of videos where, you know,
it's one of these kind
of older Tom Selleck mustache
guy. I know that was
why he was in a
river, runs through it. What's
that guy's name? Tom? What's
his name? I don't know
somebody. Yeah. So that guy
did a leaf commercials too.
Exactly. So, so that guy
is telling you about Vista
and you know, have the
kind of quiet confidence to
let you know that everything
is going to be okay.
Yeah. Well, if you don't
do it, I'm going to
scare it, Tom Skerritt. Right?
So they got Tom Skerritt
going through the, this missile
whole flash thing, but they
do give you an idea
of really what's changed. I
mean, once you kind of
cut through the cheese, yeah.
They can get an idea
of what's changed now for
our developer audience, the folks
who really want to see
what's changed, what's the best
way to find out or
from my point of view,
it's to see what's broken,
right? What did they break
on purpose? So take a
look at the application compatibility
stuff on Vista. This is
at shrink stir slash I
E M. And this is
a list of the things
that they've changed that will
affect your application in high,
medium, and low priority with
details on, Oh, you know,
we changed the way WM
paint works and you should
know because of this, it's
that level of detail. And
that provided me a lot
more value than things like
Paul throws Vista site to
shrinks there slash IEG that
just tells you what's new.
I want to know what's
busted. What's fundamentally different because
for me, I can't use
fine print. My, my favorite
printer driver, my, my multifunction
printer. I can't get it
to share even to other
Vista machines. I can't get
my Wacom tablet to work.
You know, these things aren't
killing me, but they are
a little frustrating. And I'd
like to know why you
can dig into that at
the a, in the MSDN
library, finding out what they've
actually changed in Vista and
get your apps ready to
work in Vista. Now Speaking
about developer, the developer audience,
I've noticed a few things
written down in your notes
here about the.net framework 3.0
and windows workflow. Screencasts what's
what does that do? Yeah.
You know, so Don had
framework three. Oh is on
Vista by default. So you
get Indigo, right? The windows
communication framework, right? You get
the windows presentation stuff. This
is XAML right. We'll do
a show on XAML. Maybe
we'll get some cells to
talk to us about, about
that. Cause he's got a
book on that you've got,
then you've got windows workflow.
So this is an in
process workflow. I think we'll
do a whole show on
that. Someone out there should
be keeping track of these
shows. We'll do windows. Workflow
is really exciting. This is
an in process workflow application
that allows you. It's basically
like, you know, tiny BizTalk,
lets you describe in a
very clean XML format, a
series of workflows and activities.
You can write your own
activities and then bring this
up inside your applications. You
can also do long running
workflows. So someone could say,
send an email and then,
you know, dehydrate this workflow
and wait for someone to
come back and then we'll
start the workflow back up.
Once they've approved something via
email, really cool stuff that's
built in. You have that
automatically. And what's the shrink
stir for those screencasts Ah,
yes. Sorry about that. So
the windows workflow screencasts are
really nice there. It's shrink
stir slash I E a
all that stuff's up@netfxthree.com. And
this is the kind of
the.net framework three developers site
that you should definitely take
a look at. I also
want to mention that on
DNR TV, I did a
whole four part series on
windows workflow foundation with Michael
Stiefel. And you can see
episode1@shrinks.com slash IEP. Or you
can go to DNR tv.com
and just go to the
archives and check it out
this for, I think it's
something almost five hours of
workflow, interview style videos. That's
fantastic. I'm doing the DNR
TV stuff. Now a couple
of people have been saying
that Vista is just a
rip off of math Mac
OSX  so if you
think that's the case, take
a look at shrink stir
slash I E J there's
a, basically a feature by
feature comparison because some of
the new stuff in the
next version of the Mac
iOS code named leopard, we'll
let you go back in
time and do, you know,
file versions. See the previous
version of a file, stuff
like that exists in Invista
as well. You can actually
look at a file and
say, I want to see
previous versions of this. This
is actually pretty creepy. I
just right. Clicked on my
notes for Hansel minutes and
I hit properties. And this
was the same properties dialogue
you used to seeing, except
this one says general security
details. And then it says
previous these are saved automatically
and I can see yesterday's
version and I can then
open that version and go
back in time and then
see what is in that
version. It's a little bizarre.
I'm going to dig into
kind of the details where
that stuff goes, but that's
basically hidden on my local
hard drive in a special
folder with, you know, my
name and a date timestamp
about when it was saved,
the same kind of feature
is going to be in
OSX. Basically they're they're squirreling
away versions of stuff as
you go. You know, that,
that my reaction to that
is a visceral reaction is,
Oh my God, you know,
wasted this space, but no,
this space is become ridiculously
cheap. I think I can
get a 320 gig hard
drive. Now for 99 bucks,
320 gigs for 99 bucks.
I was at office Depot
yesterday and just about bought
the, the Western digital. My
book was $199 for half
a terabyte, 500 gigs. Yeah,
I'm sick about it. I
should've gone back, Use those
here to, to archive old
versions of DNR and enhance
them and it's yeah, People
will complain and they'll say
that, well, I want, you
know, Vista to respect my
disc base and you can
turn all these features off.
You can tell it that,
but just to give you
an idea of how much
Vista understands that disc space
is cheap, it actually takes
your entire program files, documents,
and settings and windows folder
and saves it off during
an upgrade. Wow. So if
you want to uninstall this
day, it'll put it back
exactly as you had it
before by bringing all those
folders back exactly where they
were. So, you know, that
was a little surprising to
me when I opened up
my hard drive yesterday and
had only 10 gigs free
on an 80 gig drive.
And then I realized that,
you know, 16 gigs was
squirreled off into the, in
the corner. It's crazy. If
you think about that, they're
not that they don't do
that. They'd be crazy for
not because how many times,
how many times have you
seen, you've got a 200
gigs free on your hard
drive or whatever, right. And
then, you know, you see
this read me file or
a to do list from
last month that had a
few phone numbers in it.
You don't recognize and what
do you do? You delete
it, right? You delete it.
And it's like, well you
have 200 gigs free. There
may be that phone number
that you may need to
go back time. You don't
need it now, but why
are you deleting it? You
know, one of the Things
that does bother me about
this, and I think this
is just an ongoing issue
about computers in general is
be aware of where your
stuff is, right? The fact
that there are shadow copies
now means that if you're
stupid enough to put your
social security number in a
text file, that social security
number exists in a number
of places now. Yeah. You
know, it's being automatically backed
up or it's going here,
it's going there. So let's
rattle off a couple of
things that are built into
Vista that they don't do
a good job of advertising.
I like the redesign of
the start menu, but there's
so much stuff. Yeah. There's
lots. The system, you know,
it's hidden and useful. For
example, they've included, you know,
sticky notes and all the
gadgets, you can have like
a sticky post it notes
on the screen. They've got
a fantastic new windows, speech
recognition engine that lets you
drive the entire OSB a
voice wow. Hit, you know,
buried two levels deep down
in accessories. They've got a
new snipping tool that lets
you do screenshots by just
drawing where you want the
screenshot. Cause all the tablet
P stuffs PC stuff's built
in the new sync center,
the new windows sidebar, like
we talked about the gadgets,
you've got a backup tool
that's built in. Now you
can do complete system backups.
There's a new thing called
windows, easy transfer that lets
you install a clean version
of windows and then take
another machine and hook the
two up and have your
files and information move over
from the old machine for
making upgrades. Just that much
easier. Wow. There's features to
run internet Explorer with no
add-ons so you can, we
run a clean I E
a window DVD maker, all
this stuff is buried in
the menus and I don't
know how they're going to
get that stuff really out
so people can use it.
This is so much cool
stuff going on, but there's
so much stuff going on.
And I just don't, I
don't think that the start
menu is doing a great
job of letting people know
about this stuff. And there's
yet another program to search,
to look at your, your
images. You've got the windows
photo gallery. So it's going
to be a little confusing.
Speaking of the start menu,
what, where did the start
run go? So when you
click on the start menu,
you now get a text
box right at the bottom
that says enter search or
start search. That is the
run dialogue. So what is
the search? It is the
run as you start typing,
like if I type in
calc and then just let
go of the keyboard, I
see that the calculator pops
up. I see programs, calculator,
files, everything that has calculator
in it. And then emails
that have the word calculator
in it. Yeah. Or I
could just hit enter and
it would work exactly as
the start run menu would
have worked. One thing that's
nice though, is because the
search is built in. You
can save these searches. I
can go and say, search
all, come into windows Explorer,
and then say, save search.
And that'll appear as a
saved search with a dot
search dash M S folder.
And I can tag that
search and keep it in
my favorites. So basically you
can make virtual folders that
are saved searches, right? If
you have a project that
spans many folders, you want
to say anything with Karl
Franklin's name in it. I
want to have a virtual
folder that has all that
stuff a lot. Like you
do search folders and outlook.
Now this was going to
be part of when Fs
wasn't it? Well, so when
Fs has gone, right, this
was the metadata database and
is replaced with the windows
desktop search component, which is
basically a, a more hardened
built into the OS system-wide
search index. It's indexing server
and windows, desktop search support
for eye filters built into
the, to the OS and
turned on by default. All
right. So it does give
us essentially the features that
we were looking for and
when Fs, but, but isn't
architecturally the same, right? Yeah.
It gives you the same
general experience. Exactly. Everything is
index that's constantly running and
it allows you to do
different things like here I've
clicked on my documents. I
can now go to views
and I can say, I
want to view by sort
by that stuff we're used
to, but I can also
say stack by, I could
say stack by size. So
now I'm going to get
virtual folders that say, here
are all the files between
a Meg and 16 megs,
and that's a virtual stack.
I can then go into
that and see just those
files. And it is that
indexing service that makes that
possible. Wow, cool. Very bottom
multithreading one thing that you'll
notice right away is that
they do everything they can
to make the UI responsive,
to get you something right
off the bat. And then
they'll go back later and
do things like updating the
thumbnails and, you know, give
you an a, you know,
you can scroll quickly. And
then as you stop, the,
the thumbnails will start to
flow in to the system.
There's nothing like writing multithreaded
apps in a managed code.
There's just, you know, it's
so much easier than, than
doing it. The, I don't
know if the, I don't
think the Explorer is managed
code, but I would have
to run process, explore and
check it out. But they're
doing something right? Because it
is a, it is much
more responsive moving around and
explore, but it's very confusing.
They change the left hand
side. It's not just a
folder tree hierarchy anymore. Oh,
Hey, did you see a
one other totally unrelated thing
that they've got? And this
is actually a little old,
but I thought it was
cool. They've got SIM city,
the original SIM city that
you can run inside your
browser. No kidding. You can
get this and everything. You
can get shrink stir slash
I E H. This is
up@electronicarts.com and it's basically the
classic SIM city. The one
that we played in high
school and junior high in
your browser, you do have
to register, but it's, it's,
it's free and you can
screw around with, it might
be fun for the kids.
All right, Scott, that's a
show. Thank you very much
for your insights on Vista.
Thank you. And we'll see
you next week on Hansel
minutes.